---
path: /posts/nepal/pokhara/local-food
date: '2018-05-23'
title: Local Food around Pokhara Lakeside
---
# Top 10 Restaurants in Pokhara, Nepal
## ... Or where to find the best local food!
Pokhara is a small town in the Northern part of Nepal and is mostly renowned for its beautiful lakeside (the biggest lake is called *Phewa Lake*). The city is also a starting and a finishing point for many trekkers, who want to explore the Annapurna Conservation Area, *aka* an area in the Himalayas. Not only are there many activities to enjoy in the surrounding areas (paragliding, jewellery workshops or yoga classes) but the traditional Northern Nepali cuisine really makes a stay in Pokhara worth your while! Due to its geographic isolation until the 1950's, Nepal has developed an unique cuisine. When Nepal opened its borders, the culinary traditions took on many ideas and ingredients from China, India, Tibet and the Western countries, as a result of the popularity of Nepal as a touristic destination. The booming tourism in Pokhara showcases this shift in culinary practices really well, as you might find yourself completely overwhelmed by the countless restaurants, bars and cafés. This is why I put together a Top 10 list of my favourite local food restaurants in this marvellous city!
To get to any place in the list, just click here:
1. [PP Local](#pp-local)
2. [Lakelovers](#lakelovers)
3. [Pourquoi Pas](#pourquoi-pas)
4. [Gorkha Café](#gorkha-café)
5. [Sabinas Momos](#sabinas-momos)
6. [Sherpa Kitchen](#sherpa-kitchen)
7. [Aurora Borealis](#aurora-borealis)
8. [Nepali Organic Café](#nepali-organic-café)
9. [Umbrella Café](#umbrella-café)
10. [Old Star Café](#old-star-café)
### PP Local
One of the greatest restaurants my boyfriend and I discovered in Pokhara was **PP Local**. This small and simple restaurant makes magic happen in the tiny kitchen downstairs. We spent a lot of time enjoying a variety of dishes, like the *Rajma Curry*, the *Veg Curry* or the *Potato and Chickpea Curry*, which are all pretty easy dishes to recreate, yet so deliciously prepared by the PP Local family. The flavoursome curries come with tons of white rice or *naans* (the naans are extra) and you'll definitely feel satisfied by the portion sizes. The drinks are quite standard drinks (popular fizzy drinks,fruit juices, iced coffees and teas...) but their organic filtered coffee is a delight. Definitely worth a try! All around, the prices are amazing, you'll be able to eat a lot of amazing and tasty dishes, enjoy several drinks and still pay much less than you expected (around $6 for 2). Now, this description might seem really short, but the greatness of this place cannot be expressed in words! You'll have to go there and try their dishes to understand my enthusiasm! **PP Local** prepares unforgettable food and you will come back for more!
### Lakelovers
**Lakelovers** was a culinary revelation for me! I've had many so called 'Mo-Mos' (also known as *momo-cha*, they are bite-sized dumplings usually filled with meat or vegetables) since my arrival in Kathmandu, but looking for a sweet snack on a hot afternoon, I figured: "Why not try sweet mo-mos?" So here I was with my lovely boyfriend at **Lakelovers**, ordering apple mo-mos with honey and giiiiirl they were good! The combination of the thin dough, apple compot, cinammon and honey just melted in my mouth right off the bat! My boyfriend was lucky: he managed to convince me to let him try these dumplings from heaven, before I devoured the whole ten pieces! This probably wasn't the best dietary choice, but I would do it all over again in a heartbeat!
In addition to these sweet, sweet mo-mos, **Lakelovers** offers a variety of Nepali dishes and they are all freshly prepared with regional ingredients, sometimes even by the owner (Basanta) himself! Basanta is an amazing human being, whose generosity and kindness know no limit. His parents live in a small village in the hills and often come to the restaurant to visit him. They invited us both to their home in the hills to experience the life of Nepali farmers. We shared a freshly-cooked *Daal Bhaat* (the most common Nepali dish, composed of white rice, spicy potatoes and a spinach-like vegetable called *Nuro*, and a tasty legume soup, subtly flavoured with a mix of spices), fed their buffalos and cut grass for said buffalos. The parents, Vishnu and Bagaban-Krishna, taught us a lot about what happiness means to them and their simplicity and generosity really touched us. **Lakelovers** is a place where you'll feel at home through its easy-going vibe and beautiful view on the Phewa Lake.
### Pourquoi Pas
If you're looking for a traditional, simple and cheap restaurant by the lakeside, **Pourquoi Pas** is a must. This tiny restaurant resembles a cozy living room, made of bamboo and built by the owner himself and a French friend of his, who also named the restaurant. The owner is a retired Sherpa, who, through his extensive knowledge of plants, spices and herbs, is able to offer a compact menu, composed of the most traditional Northern Nepali dishes. His wife and him cook together, with local ingredients, herbs he gets from his ex-colleagues in the Himalayas and techniques, which their parents taught them in the past. The mo-mos burst with flavour, juicyness and spice, the daal has a smooth texture and is yet so incredibly complex in its spicyness. Another notable fact about** Pourquoi Pas** is that the teas are a must-try too. The owner, as previously mentioned, is a retired Sherpa and had access to knowledge, which now allows him to practice as a healer through his herbal teas. His herb selection can basically solve any health problem you could encounter, from urinary tract infections to anorexia. And the healing properties of the herbs he uses are remarkable, so give it a try! After all, Pourquoi Pas *(*Why Not*)*?
### Gorkha Café
Gorkha Café is the place to go to, if you are craving a hearty dish. This is a place where you'll find what you're looking for. I've been having some issues with my health over here. It mostly led me to sleep **a lot** and get exhausted quite quickly. So, on one of those days, I woke up late in the evening, having only eaten breakfast many, many hours earlier. As you can imagine, I was starving! My boyfriend told me about this "Malai Kofte" I needed to try. And I wasn't disappointed! Along with the vegetable sausages, we were offered some white rice and some curry, we drank iced peach tea and my food craving was fully satisfied! This family business might be simple, but their flavourful and hearty food made its mark and go itself a spot in my top 10 list! Their prices are more than fair and the quantities are big enough to satisfy any hungry tummy. Fun fact: small birds fly around in the restaurant and watch you eating quietly, sitting on the Wifi-router cable!
### Sabinas Momos
Sabinas Momos Restaurant's speciality is... (*drum roll*) you've guessed it! Momos! And the cooks have mastered the execution of their speciality extremely well! We tried the veg Mo-Mos all the way up on the roof-top terrace. The view on the lake is wonderful and the service is really nice. The only critical point was the fact that they watered down the mixed fruit juice so much, that it basically tasted bad. But as we asked for another one, the server brought us a new glass of juice and a feedback form, where we were able to rate and comment their food, drinks and service. And that is a great sign of how important their clients are to them! In the evening, people like to spend some time together on the newly-renovated terrace, enjoying the tasty food and the relaxed ambiance, whilst listening to house/techno music.
### Sherpa Kitchen
Oh**Sherpa Kitchen**! What a delightful little restaurant! This is the place where I discovered what a *thukpa* and a *thendhuk* are. What do those words mean Tita? Well, a *thukpa* is originally a Tibetan and North Eastern Nepali noodle soup, which is served with vegetables and sometimes meat, in a spicy broth. The *thendhuk* isn't a dish on its own, it is a modified version of the thukpa, and along with a slightly thick stew, is served with vegetables, meat (if asked for) and wide pasta. These soups might seem quite boring in theory, but the complexity of the flavours added by the numerous mixed herbs and spices in the broth or stew is astonishing! The thukpa was served quickly after we ordered and some time after that (maybe about 20 minutes later), the server brought our thendhuk. We ended up not being able to finish either of the dishes because of the portion sizes, but I wish I had had a bigger stomach! The prices were really low for this display of quality and professionalism, this restaurant is definitely a must! Plus, it is situated on the Southern part of the Lake, where most of the tourists and backpackers stay, therefore it has a prime location and is accessible easily from both sides of the Lake!
### Aurora Borealis
During an outdoor yoga session, my boyfriend and I started hearing quite interesting music coming from this place. We rushed to **Aurora Borealis** to check out the location and the music the French DJ was playing and we ended up really enjoying our evening! Besides the gigantic outdoor area, the clean toilets and the all-around great decor, **Aurora Borealis** offers techno/house evenings by inviting DJs to play outdoors. A local student told us that most of the time, they'd play psytrans, so be warned, it might not always be as enchanting as it was for us (Nepal is seriously lacking a techno scene and this explains why we were so happy to find a Berlin-like place in Pokhara!) But we also tried the food they offered there. A plain Daal, a Daal Makhani, white rice and two *rotis* (*Phulka-roti* or *sukkha-roti*, is a thin unleavened flatbread prepared with whole-wheat flour and usually cooked in a Nepali cast-iron griddle called *taaba*). The plain Daal seemed quite bland next to the Daal Makhani, which is a Punjabi dish, prepared with black lentils, red kidney beans, ginger and garlic paste, chillies, cardamom, cumin... and mostly served alongside rice or rotis. We asked for the dishes to be non-dairy, and the cook still managed to pull off the creaminess and smooth texture we expected! I'd say that **Aurora Borealis** is a bit more pricy than the other places I recommended so far, but it is definitely a location worth checking out to have a fun night out with friends!
### Nepali Organic Café - R.I.P.
Back to the Southern Lake Side! This time, the restaurant's named **"Nepali Organic Café"**. We actually went there to have a small meal before we'd head to a yoga class (which ended up getting cancelled, as all the other yoga classes we tried to go to on that day!). Eating before a yoga practice is not a great idea by the way, it won't allow you to be fully aware and your body will be much more focused on digesting than to get the *asanas* (yoga poses) right. Anyway, we were quite hungry so we stopped by this place a yoga teacher recommended us and had some hummus and some dessert (mostly because I was craving these items and didn't want to eat too much before the practice). The dishes were delicious! I can only imagine how good the Nepali food would've been, but this place really deserves its place in the top 10 in Pokhara nonetheless, since all the ingredients are fresh, the serving time is minimal and the selection of served dishes is decent. Add cheap prices to that and that resumes the Nepali Organic Café experience!
*Side note: Unfotunately, the Nepali Organic Café has been closed just after my departure for construction or renovation purposes (as it seems) and I'm not sure if it will re-open as a restaurant. It still deserves its place in this Top 10 list and I hope it won't be closed forever! That would be a tragic loss!*
### Umbrella Café
Where do I start? **Umbrella Café**is not only a really comfortable restaurant, with good food and a healing center, which means that they offer yoga classes, sound healing sessions and other forms of meditation and exercise. The yoga instructors working here are usually travellers who came from (or are heading to) India, and they offer a variety of courses tackling the different aspects of this wonderful practice. One great thing about **Umbrella Café** is that you can get either free drinks or a 10% discount on food when you're done with your class! And that, my friends, is a delight. Another fact worth mentioning about **Umbrella Café**is that it has been my favourite dessert place in all of Pokhara (there's others, don't take me wrong but this one is special!) Their vegan chocolate balls have a perfect consistency, a sweet but not too sweet caramel-y and chocolat-y taste and aren't too big, so that you'll be able to feel completely satisfied after eating one. **Umbrella Café**offers a variety of vegan and vegetarian dishes, as well as some meat dishes, like wraps, Nepali food, Middle-Eastern influenced dishes, and the classic drinks like coffee, fruit juices and milkshakes. I'm recommending this place also because their prices for the yoga classes are cheaper than many I've seen around here in Pokhara (500 Nepali rupies, aka around $5). Plus they're awesome people, so go check it out!
### Old Star Café
Last but not least, **Old Star Café**. One of the little jewels Pokhara has to offer. Their traditional Nepali food will blow you away! This little restaurant by the lakeside is definitely one of the go-tos if you're looking for a cozy ambiance, simple yet extremely tasty food and most of all, really cheap prices. My boyfriend and I recently went there to work on our laptops and had the Thali and the *Alu Curry* (a traditional potato-based curry) and both of our dishes were incredibly flavoursome!
One of the more interesting, yet not traditional beverages you can also find at Old Star, is the *bhang lassi*, which is a mushroom shake which might make you feel a bit happy, if you know what I mean. They offer three different levels of high in their drinks and you won't regret it. Just be careful, even the medium drink is quite strong!
## Conclusion
This is my selection of the 10 best local restaurants in Pokhara. All the locations can be found on the map below! I hope you'll enjoy trying out these awesome places! Don't hesitate to tell me all about your food experiences in Pokhara in the comment section, I'll be more than happy to read all about them.
Have a great day!
*Laetitia*
